Update Working with Dependencies -> Centralizing Dependencies Section (#30529)
gradle/gradle: platforms/documentation/docs/src/docs/userguide/dep-man/centralizing-dependencies/centralizing_catalog_platform.adoc

// Copyright (C) 2023 Gradle, Inc.
//
// Licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License.;
// you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
// You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
//      https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
// distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
// WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
// See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
// limitations under the License.

[[platforms-vs-catalog]]
= Using Catalogs with Platforms

Both platforms and version catalogs help manage dependency versions in a project, but they serve different purposes and have different effects on dependency resolution:

== Version Catalogs

- **Purpose:** A version catalog is used to centralize and standardize dependency coordinates (group, name, version). It provides type-safe accessors in the build script, making dependencies easier to manage.

> - **Effect on Dependency Graph:** Version catalogs **do not** affect dependency resolution. The versions defined in the catalog are **suggestions** and **transparent to downstream consumers**. These versions can be overridden by other mechanisms like transitive dependencies or platforms.

Reviewer: ❗ Can we not say "suggestions" here?

Nothing in a catalog is 1) applied to any configuration by default - the contents need to be explicitly referenced from a `dependencies` block - true, but when they are then 2) they work the same as any "locally" declared dependency.  I don't know how to explain this briefly with one word, but I think it's really important to make this very clear.

I'd also explain that transparent means that the source of a dependency declaration (local or catalog) cannot be identified by downstream consumers.  The declaration itself is not transparent.

Author: Done. Might need a final check.

[source,toml]
.libs.versions.toml
----
[libraries]
mylib = { group = "com.example", name = "mylib", version = "1.0.0" }
----

== Platforms

> - **Purpose:** A platform is a module in the dependency graph that enforces or aligns versions of transitive dependencies. It influences dependency resolution and ensures version consistency across different modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Purpose:** A platform is a module in the dependency graph that enforces or aligns versions of dependencies (including transitive dependencies). It influences dependency resolution and ensures version consistency across different modules.
```

Author: Done.

> - **Effect on Dependency Graph:** Platforms can **enforce** or **suggest versions** that are propagated through the dependency graph, affecting transitive dependencies and downstream consumers. They are a formal part of the dependency graph and can dictate the version chosen during resolution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Effect on Dependency Graph:** Platforms **apply** or **enforce** versions to dependencies that are declarated locally without versions.  These versions in a platform are propagated through the dependency graph, affecting transitive dependencies and downstream consumers. They are a formal part of the dependency graph and can dictate the version chosen during resolution.
```

Author: Done.

[source,kotlin]
.build.gradle.kts
----
plugins {
    `java-platform`
}

dependencies {
    constraints {
        api("com.example:mylib:2.0.0") // This version will influence resolution
    }
}
----

> == Version catalog vs. platform

Reviewer: ❗ Don't say vs., as you can use both in the same project - this is mentioned below.  I think both these sections (this and "Using a catalog with a platform") should be combined into just "Using catalogs with platforms")

> Even if a version catalog defines a version for a dependency, Gradle might pick a different version during resolution if another component (e.g., a platform or a transitive dependency) suggests a different version.

Reviewer: 💭 Unless it's an `enforcedPlatform` - might want to mention/link to that here.

For example, a version catalog may define `mylib` as version `1.0.0`, but if a platform enforces `2.0.0`, Gradle will select version `2.0.0`.

Best Practices for using both a catalog and a platform:

1. **Use version catalogs** for defining and sharing dependency coordinates across projects. They make dependency declarations consistent and easier to manage but do not guarantee version alignment.
2. **Use platforms** when you need to influence or enforce version alignment across modules. Platforms ensure that dependencies resolve to the desired version, particularly in large or multi-module projects.

== Using a catalog with a platform

A project can use both a version catalog to define dependency versions and a platform to enforce version alignment.

====
include::sample[dir="snippets/dependencyManagement/catalogs-javaPlatformUsage/kotlin",files="build.gradle.kts[tags=platform_uses_catalog]"]
include::sample[dir="snippets/dependencyManagement/catalogs-javaPlatformUsage/groovy",files="build.gradle[tags=platform_uses_catalog]"]

> ====

Reviewer: ❗ This example just shows defining the platform using the catalog.  It should also show a consumer project that uses the platform (perhaps with a different, version-less dependency from the catalog, that itself requires mylib - then the constraint would apply to the transitive myLib dep).

I think this example is too simple, and it is important to more completely demonstrate this scenario.

Author: Done. Added a brand new snippet.
